South Korean president Yoon Suk Yeol (pictured) is arrested after his declaration of martial law.
Joseph Aoun is elected president of Lebanon after a two-year vacancy, and Nawaf Salam is nominated as prime minister.
An attack on the presidential palace in N'Djamena, Chad, results in 19 deaths.
A series of wildfires in Southern California, United States, leaves at least 25 people dead and destroys more than 12,000 structures.
Ongoing: Israel–Hamas warRussian invasion of Ukraine timelineSudanese civil war timeline
Recent deaths: Shiu Ka-chunOtto SchenkJean-Marie Le PenJohn S. HunkinBob VealeCharles M. Roessel
Nominate an article
January 16, 2025 (Thursday)
edithistorywatch
Armed conflicts and attacks

Israel–Hamas war
Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip
Israeli airstrikes kill at least 82 people across the Gaza Strip, including 30 in Gaza City, hours after the announcement of the forthcoming ceasefire agreement. (Al Jazeera)
International relations

Ukraine–United Kingdom relations
U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer visits Kyiv to sign a 100-year agreement with Ukraine that will formalize British economic and military support for the latter. (Sky News) (BBC News)
Disasters and accidents

Stilfontein mine deaths
The bodies of nine illegal miners trapped inside a gold mine in Stilfontein, South Africa, are recovered by police. (CTV News)
30 people die and 65 are hospitalized in Istanbul, Turkey, after consuming methanol-poisoned alcohol. (NOS)
Law and crime

Two women are killed and a third is injured in a mass stabbing at a school in Spišská Stará Ves, Slovakia. The perpetrator is arrested. (BBC News) (Devdiscourse)
Politics and elections

2025 Vanuatuan general election
Citizens of Vanuatu vote to elect the 52 members of parliament. (RNZ)
Science and technology

2025 in spaceflight
Blue Origin launches its New Glenn rocket for the first time from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida, United States. The rocket's second stage, carrying a prototype Blue Ring spacecraft, successfully reaches a geocentric orbit, but its reusable first stage is lost during landing. (CNN)
The twin satellites SDX01 and SDX02 of SpaDeX mission, launched in December 2024 by the Indian Space Research Organisation, successfully conduct India's first spacecraft docking, with India becoming the fourth country to successfully do so after the United States, Russia, and China. (BBC News)
Nintendo officially reveals the Nintendo Switch 2 video game console, the ninth-generation successor to the Nintendo Switch. (Nintendo)
January 15, 2025 (Wednesday)
edithistorywatch
Armed conflicts and attacks

Israel–Hamas war
2025 Israel–Hamas war ceasefire
Israel and Hamas reach a diplomatic agreement mediated by Egypt, Qatar, and the U.S. to initiate a ceasefire and an end to military operations in the Gaza Strip, as well as to facilitate the exchange of hostages and prisoners, marking the first major cessation of hostilities since November 2023. (CNN)
Syrian civil war
Israeli invasion of Syria
The Israeli Air Force strikes a Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) vehicle convoy in Quneitra Governorate, Syria, killing two HTS personnel and the mayor of a local village. It is the first time that Israel has targeted HTS forces since the fall of the Assad regime. (Al Arabiya)
Allied Democratic Forces insurgency
Kivu conflict
Allied Democratic Forces militants kill ten people in an attack on a village in North Kivu, Democratic Republic of the Congo. (AP)
Russian invasion of Ukraine
Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure
Russia launches a major ballistic and cruise missile attack on regions across Ukraine, targeting energy production and compelling authorities to shut down the power grid. (AP)
Red Sea crisis
Yemen's Houthi movement claims that it launched a missile attack targeting the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier and accompanying warships of the United States Navy in the Red Sea. (Anadolu Agency)
Disasters and accidents

Stilfontein mine deaths
Seventy-eight bodies of workers are retrieved from a closed illegal gold mine in Stilfontein, North West Province, South Africa following a months-long siege by police. Over 200 survivors are arrested as they exit the mine. (Reuters)
Bootleg alcohol kills 23 people and leaves 43 others hospitalized over the last 48 hours in Istanbul, Turkey. Turkish health officials say many of those in hospital are in intensive care. (CBS News)
Health and environment

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration bans the usage of Red No. 3 artificial food coloring, due to research showing that the food coloring is carcinogenic. (NBC News)
International relations

Poland–Russia relations
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk accuses Russian President Vladimir Putin and his country of plotting terror attacks on airliners around the world. (The Independent)
Law and crime

2024 South Korean martial law crisis
Arrest of Yoon Suk Yeol
Anti-corruption officials and police attempt to breach the residence of impeached South Korean president Yoon Suk Yeol for a second time in order to execute an arrest warrant, while facing resistance from the Presidential Security Service, People Power Party lawmakers, and pro-Yoon protesters. Following a five-hour standoff, Yoon is arrested, becoming South Korea's first sitting president to be arrested. (Yonhap) (Yonhap 2) (AP)
2024 drone sightings
The German government authorises the Bundeswehr to shoot down suspicious drones seen near military sites or other critical infrastructure with Interior Minister Nancy Faeser stating that Russia is suspected of being behind the drone activity. (BBC News)
Politics and elections

2024–2025 Mozambican protests
Daniel Chapo is sworn in as President of Mozambique, succeeding Filipe Nyusi. The inauguration takes place amid ongoing political unrest in Mozambique, with opposition leader Venâncio Mondlane continuing to insist that the October 2024 election was rigged. (France 24)
2024–2025 Georgian protests
A general strike takes place in Georgia with hundreds of Georgian firms urging the government to release all political prisoners and hold new elections amid nationwide protests. Former Prime Minister and opposition leader Giorgi Gakharia is hospitalized after being assaulted, allegedly by members of the ruling Georgian Dream party. (Civil Georgia), (BBC News)
Rosen Zhelyazkov of the GERB–SDS coalition is tasked by Bulgarian President Rumen Radev with forming the new goverment, following the parliamentary election in October 2024. (Fakti.bg)
Science and technology

Exploration of the Moon, Commercial Lunar Payload Services
A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifts off from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, United States, carrying the American Blue Ghost M1 moon lander from Firefly Aerospace and the Japanese Hakuto-R Mission 2 moon lander from ispace. (BBC News)
January 14, 2025 (Tuesday)
edithistorywatch
Armed conflicts and attacks

Israel–Hamas war
Israel–Hamas war hostage crisis, Calls for a ceasefire during the Israel–Hamas war
Hamas officials say that they have accepted a draft agreement for a potential ceasefire as well as the release of hostages. Mediators in the United States and Qatar also state that this is the closest that both sides have been to a ceasefire agreement so far. (AP)
Israeli incursions in the West Bank
Four Al-Qassam Brigades militants and two civilians are killed during an Israeli airstrike in Jenin, in the occupied West Bank. (Al Jazeera)
Russian invasion of Ukraine
Attacks in Russia during the Russian invasion of Ukraine
Ukraine strikes targets in the Republic of Tatarstan and Bryansk, Saratov, and Tula oblasts, Russia, with more than 200 drones and five ATACMS ballistic missiles, hitting ammunition depots, industrial plants and a refinery, in what Ukraine says is its "most massive" and "deepest" attack inside Russia so far. (CNN) (BBC News)
North Korean missile tests
North Korea launches multiple short-range ballistic missiles into the Sea of Japan. (Reuters)
Red Sea crisis
Yemen's Houthi forces fire a missile at Israel, triggering sirens in several areas, including Tel Aviv and some Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank. According to the Israeli military, the missile was "likely intercepted" with no injuries reported. (Xinhua)
Health and environment

The World Health Organization reports a suspected Marburg virus outbreak in Kagera, Tanzania, with nine cases and eight deaths. (Reuters)
International relations

2024 Baltic Sea submarine cable disruptions, NATO operations
At the Summit of Baltic Sea Allies in Helsinki, Finland, NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte announces the establishment of the Baltic Sentry military mission, which will strengthen the protection of critical infrastructure in the region, such as energy and communication cables, from "destabilizing acts". (NATO News)
Armenia–United States relations
The Armenian Foreign Minister, Ararat Mirzoyan, and the U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, sign in Washington, DC a Strategic Partnership Charter between Armenia and the United States. (The Defense Post)
Cuba–United States relations
U.S. President Joe Biden announces that the United States will remove Cuba from its state sponsors of terrorism list as part of a prisoner release deal. (BBC News)
Law and crime

2024 South Korean martial law crisis
Arrest of Yoon Suk Yeol
A military unit assigned to guard the presidential residence of impeached South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol approves the entry of anti-corruption officials and police, which is contested by the Presidential Security Service. (Yonhap)
The Constitutional Court of South Korea adjourns the opening session of Yoon Suk Yeol's impeachment trial after Yoon failed to attend the session due to alleged safety concerns. (NBC News) (Xinhua)
Moldova detains former Kyrgyzstan presidential advisor Aidar Khalikov, who has accused Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov of corruption and election rigging. (OCCRP)
Politics and elections

British Treasury Economic Secretary Tulip Siddiq resigns amid an anti-corruption investigation in Bangladesh involving her family. (BBC News)
Science and technology

The government of Venezuela lifts its ban on the social media and instant messaging app Telegram. (TechRadar)
January 13, 2025 (Monday)
edithistorywatch
Armed conflicts and attacks

Somali Civil War
War against the Islamic State
Islamic State insurgency in Puntland
Twenty-six Islamic State militants are allegedly killed, including a female combatant and two soldiers, and several others are injured when Puntland forces capture eight Islamic State bases during ongoing offensive military operations in Bari, Puntland, Somalia. (Idil News) (AFP)
Israel–Hamas war
Israel–Hamas war hostage crisis, Calls for a ceasefire during the Israel–Hamas war
According to two Israeli officials, Hamas is expected to release 33 hostages during the first phase of an emerging ceasefire agreement being finalized by negotiators in Doha, Qatar. (CNN)
Israeli invasion of Lebanon
2024 Israel–Lebanon ceasefire agreement
The Israel Defense Forces strike several Hezbollah sites in Lebanon, alleging that the targets violated the terms of the ceasefire agreement. (The Times of Israel)
Sudanese Civil War
Battle of Khartoum
The shelling of an area of Omdurman results in the death of at least 120 civilians, according to volunteer rescuers. (Al Arabiya News)
Russian invasion of Ukraine
Attacks in Russia during the Russian invasion of Ukraine
Russia accuses Ukraine of targeting the Russkaya compressor station in the Krasnodar Krai, which feeds gas for the TurkStream pipeline, in a failed drone attack two days ago. (S&P Global)
Business and economy

A general strike by Belgian unions to protest against government plans for pension reform occurs, with the work stoppages severely disrupting public transport in Brussels as well as rail and air travel throughout the country. (Politico)
Disasters and accidents

2025 California wildfires
January 2025 Southern California wildfires
AccuWeather releases a preliminary estimate of the total physical and economic losses caused by the ongoing wildfires in Southern California of between $250–275 billion, a figure attributed to exceptionally high property values in and near Santa Monica, which would surpass their estimates of the costs of the entire 2020 United States wildfire season as well as Hurricane Helene in 2024. (NBC News)
Twelve people are killed and many others are missing in a landslide in Hpakant, Kachin State, Myanmar. (AP)
Law and crime

Venezuelan attorney general Tarek Saab asks for an arrest warrant and a red notice from Interpol against opposition figure Leopoldo López, who is currently in exile. Venezuela accuses López of instigating the use of arms against the state and treason, among other charges. (Reuters)
A judge in Peru dismisses charges of money laundering against Popular Force leader and former presidential candidate Keiko Fujimori. (Reuters)
Politics and elections

Efforts to impeach Sara Duterte
Members of the Iglesia ni Cristo hold a nationwide National Rally for Peace in the Philippines to express their disapproval of impeachment efforts against Vice President Sara Duterte. (Rappler)
International Court of Justice President Nawaf Salam becomes the prime minister-designate of Lebanon after winning an absolute majority of votes from parliament, while stepping down from the ICJ. (CNN)
January 12, 2025 (Sunday)
edithistorywatch
Armed conflicts and attacks

Israel–Hamas war
Israel–Hamas war hostage crisis
A top-level Israeli security delegation arrives in Qatar for talks on a Gaza hostages and ceasefire deal. (Reuters)
Israel–United States relations, Calls for a ceasefire during the Israel–Hamas war
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and U.S. President Joe Biden discuss efforts to reach a deal to solve the hostage crisis as well as a ceasefire to end the war. (USA Today)
Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip
At least eight Palestinians are killed in Israeli airstrikes on areas of the Gaza Strip. (Xinhua)
Kivu conflict
M23 offensive
The Army of the Democratic Republic of the Congo says that over the days it has recaptured several towns that fell to M23 rebels and other armed groups in North Kivu and South Kivu provinces.(AP)
Nigerian bandit conflict
At least 40 people are killed during an attack by Boko Haram gunmen in Dumba, Borno State, Nigeria. (AP)
At least 16 civilians are killed in an airstrike conducted by the Nigerian Air Force in Zamfara State, apparently after being mistaken for criminal gangs. (BBC News)
Disasters and accidents

2025 California wildfires
January 2025 Southern California wildfires
California Governor Gavin Newsom states that the ongoing wildfires impacting Los Angeles County could become the worst natural disaster in American history "in terms of the scale and scope", amid current estimated damages of more than US$135 billion. (The Independent) (NBC News)
The death toll from the wildfires increases to 24. (BBC News)
Officials say that the Kenneth Fire has been contained. (KCAL-TV)
Ten people are killed and several others are injured after large floods engulf the city of Ipatinga in Minas Gerais, Brazil. (BBC)
Three people are killed and two others are injured in an avalanche in Trasquera, Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola, Italy. (Rai News)
At least 17 miners are trapped in a gold mine in La Libertad Department, Peru, after a group of illegal miners attacked the mine. (Xinhua)
Health and environment

HMPV seasonal outbreak in China
The Bangladeshi IEDCR reports the country's first case of HMPV in Bhairab, Dhaka Division, Bangladesh. (New Age)
International relations

Germany–Syria relations
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock pledges €50 million in food, emergency shelters, and medical care to Syria following talks with the Syrian transitional government in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. (DW)
Foreign ministers and senior officers of Arab countries, the European Union, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States hold a series of diplomatic meetings focused on Syria in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. (Saudi Gazette)
Politics and elections

2024–25 Croatian presidential election
Croatians vote in the second round to elect the president between incumbent Zoran Milanović and former science and education minister Dragan Primorac. (The Dubrovnik Times) (Sarajevo Times)
2025 Comorian parliamentary election
Voters in Comoros elect the 33 members of the Assembly of the Union. (Reuters)
Ilza Amado Vaz unexpectedly resigns as Prime Minister of São Tomé and Príncipe three days after being appointed Prime Minister by President Carlos Vila Nova. The ruling Independent Democratic Action party then proposes Adelino Pereira to replace Vaz, but Vila Nova appoints Américo d'Oliveira dos Ramos. (Xinhua 1), (Xinhua 2)
January 11, 2025 (Saturday)
edithistorywatch
Armed conflicts and attacks

Israel–Hamas war
Israel–United States relations, Calls for a ceasefire during the Israel–Hamas war
Incoming U.S. Middle East Envoy Steve Witkoff meets with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in an effort to secure a ceasefire deal in Gaza before President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration on January 20. (Sky News)
Netanyahu sends Mossad director David Barnea to ceasefire talks in Doha. (ABC News)
Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip
An Israeli airstrike on a school sheltering displaced civilians in Jabalia, northern Gaza, kills at least eight Palestinians and leaves 30 others injured. (Middle East Monitor)
Russian invasion of Ukraine
Eastern Ukraine campaign
The Russian Army says that it has gained control of the settlement of Shevchenko in Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine. (Anadolu Agency)
Kursk offensive, North Korean involvement in the Russian invasion of Ukraine
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy announces that Ukraine has captured two North Korean soldiers in healthy condition in Kursk Oblast, Russia, for the first time since North Korea entered the war, as the two previous North Korean prisoners of war died of their injuries shortly following their capture. (Reuters)
Somali Civil War, War against the Islamic State
Islamic State insurgency in Puntland
The Counterterrorism Forces of Puntland's disclosed a cave that was being used to store food by ISIL was captured by Puntland forces in Al-Miskad mountains, killed ISIL fighters and captured including foreigners and destroyed improvised explosive devices and hideouts, and downed three explosives-laden drones as the troops continued their offensive against ISIL militants hiding in the remote areas of the Bari region, Puntland. (Garowe Online) (The Somali Digest) (VOA)
Sudanese civil war
Battle of Wad Madani
The Sudanese Armed Forces say that they liberated Wad Madani, the capital of Gezira State, Sudan, from the Rapid Support Forces. (Al Arabiya)
Myanmar civil war
At least fifteen civilians are killed and 10 others are wounded in a Tatmadaw airstrike on a market, targeting Kachin Independence Army fighters, in Tanai Township, Kachin State, Myanmar. (The Defense Post) (Daily Post)
Nigerian bandit conflict
Twenty-one government-backed fighters are killed during an ambush against a convoy in Baure, Katsina State, Nigeria. (Al Jazeera)
Disasters and accidents

2025 California wildfires
January 2025 Southern California wildfires
At least 939 CDCR inmates are deployed to fight the ongoing wildfires in Los Angeles County, California, United States. (BBC News)
The number of deaths in the California wildfires rises to 16. (NBC)
2024–25 South-West Indian Ocean cyclone season
France places the Indian Ocean island of Mayotte on red alert due to approaching Tropical Cyclone Dikeledi, roughly one month after the French overseas department was devastated by Cyclone Chido. (Reuters)
Al-Bayda gas station explosion
At least 15 people are killed and 67 others are injured, including 40 critically, in an explosion at a gas station in Al Bayda Governorate, Yemen. (CTV News)
Six people are killed and eleven injured when a propane-butane cylinder explodes in a restaurant in Most, Czech Republic. (Reuters) (DW)
Two people are killed and eleven others are injured when a bus flips on its side on a highway near Prenzlau, northeast of Berlin, Germany. (CTV News)
At least 50 people are injured when two trams collide in a tunnel in Strasbourg, France. (DW)
International relations

Ethiopia–Somalia relations
Prime Minister of Ethiopia Abiy Ahmed and President of Somalia Hassan Sheikh Mohamud meet in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, as part of a Turkey-brokered rapprochement to restore bilateral relations after a yearlong dispute due to the 2024 Ethiopia–Somaliland memorandum of understanding. (Bloomberg)
Lebanon–Syria relations
Prime Minister of Lebanon Najib Mikati and Syrian de facto leader Ahmed al-Sharaa hold a meeting in Damascus, Syria, the first time that the two countries have met since the Syrian civil war began in 2011. (24 Digital) (MTV)
Law and crime

A person throws a Molotov cocktail at the consulate of Venezuela in Lisbon, Portugal. No injuries are reported. (Euronews)
Politics and elections

2024 South Korean martial law crisis
Thousands of people demonstrate in Seoul, South Korea, to protest against President Yoon Suk Yeol as he defies an arrest warrant from his attempt to institute martial law in December 2024. (Al Jazeera) (TRT World)
At least 12,000 people gather in Riesa, Saxony, Germany, to protest an Alternative for Germany convention as well as the party's far-right views. (Al Jazeera)
January 10, 2025 (Friday)
edithistorywatch
Armed conflicts and attacks

Somali Civil War, War against the Islamic State
Islamic State insurgency in Puntland
Puntland forces fight against ISIS in the IL-Ameira mountains, stopping seven drones loaded with bombs and removing ten landmines. The forces also destroy five ISIS bases. They capture military bases, including a water well in Jeceel Valley near Cal Miskaad mountains of Balidhidhin District, Bari, Puntland. (Horseed Media) (Hiiraan Online)
Red Sea crisis
The Israeli Air Force launches airstrikes on a power station and two ports in Houthi-controlled Yemen in retaliation for Houthi drone and missile attacks on Israel, with pro-Houthi media reporting that at least three people were injured. (Al Arabiya)
Disasters and accidents

2025 California wildfires
January 2025 Southern California wildfires
Amid ongoing wildfires, authorities in Los Angeles County, California, United States, impose a curfew and announce the deployment of the California National Guard in order to protect homes in evacuated areas from looting. (KNBC-TV)
The United States Department of Health and Human Services issues a public health emergency for California in response to injuries and mental health impacts caused by the ongoing wildfires. (CNN)
Three of the twelve miners that were reported missing yesterday in an explosion at a coal mine in Singidi, Balochistan, Pakistan, are found dead by rescue workers. (CTV News)
Three women are killed and five children are injured in a stampede at the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus, Syria. (Reuters)
Three people on the ground are killed and three others are injured when a Cessna 172 aircraft crashes into a road near Malindi, Kenya. (AP)
Health and environment

2024 in climate change
The Copernicus Climate Change Service confirms that 2024 was the warmest calendar year since records began in 1850, with the average global temperature reaching 1.6 °C above pre-industrial levels, surpassing the 1.5 °C warming benchmark set in 2016 by the Paris Agreement for the first time. (C3S) (Politico) (BBC News)
International relations

2025 Moldovan energy crisis
Moldova's unrecognized breakaway region of Transnistria extends its state of emergency for another month due to an energy crisis following the suspension of Russian gas supplies. (Reuters)
Colombia–Venezuela relations
The government of Venezuela closes the border with Colombia ahead of the swearing-in of Nicolás Maduro for a third term as President of Venezuela. (Le Monde)
Denmark–United States relations, Proposals for the United States to purchase Greenland
The Prime Minister of Greenland, Mute Bourup Egede, says that his country "has a desire for independence" and he, in particular, is ready to speak with US President-elect Donald Trump. (Bloomberg)
International sanctions during the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russia–United States relations
The United States government imposes a new series of sanctions targeting Russia's energy sector, including the Gazprom Neft and Surgutneftegas oil companies. (CNN)
Italy–Syria relations
The Italian Foreign Minister, Antonio Tajani, meets in Damascus with Ahmed al-Sharaa, de facto leader of Syria. (Euronews)
Law and crime

Indictments against Donald Trump
Prosecution of Donald Trump in New York
U.S. president-elect Donald Trump is sentenced for falsifying business records, with judge Juan Merchan ordering an unconditional discharge, stating that imprisonment or fines could cause Trump to eventually have his convictions overturned. (AP)
Death and funeral of Alexei Navalny
Russia financial watchdog Rosfinmonitoring rejects requests to remove former opposition leader Alexei Navalny from their state sponsor of terrorism list despite his death a year ago. (Reuters)
International reactions to the 2024 Venezuelan presidential election, United States–Venezuela relations, Sanctions during the Venezuelan crisis
U.S. authorities announce an increased $25 million reward for information leading to the arrest of Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro. (BBC News)
Vince McMahon sex trafficking scandal
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announces that former WWE CEO Vince McMahon has agreed to pay a $400,000 fine and reimburse $1.3 million to WWE as part of a settlement to drop accounting fraud charges. (CNN)
Politics and elections

2024 Venezuelan political crisis
Third inauguration of Nicolás Maduro
Nicolás Maduro is sworn in for a third six-year term as President of Venezuela in Caracas. The ceremony takes place under heavy security measures with the opposition boycotting and protesting the ceremony while continuing to insist that the legitimate president-elect is Edmundo González Urrutia. Many countries and international organizations also consider the election to be fraudulent. (CNN)
2024 Austrian legislative election
Austrian president Alexander Van der Bellen appoints foreign minister Alexander Schallenberg as acting chancellor to succeed Karl Nehammer, who resigned six days ago. (Reuters)
More January 2025 events...
Time: 19:02 UTC|Day: 16 January
◀January 2025▶
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
More January 2025 events...   
About this page
Report a dispute • News about Wikipedia
Ongoing events
Disasters
Avian flu outbreak
Haitian crisis
United States opioid epidemic
Economics
Chinese property sector crisis
German economic crisis
Moldovan energy crisis
United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis
Video game industry layoffs
Politics
Georgian constitutional crisis
Mexico–United States border crisis
Somali constitutional crisis
South Korean presidential impeachment
Venezuelan political crisis
Protests and strikes
Georgian post-election protests
Israel–Hamas war protests
Mozambican post-election protests
United Kingdom farmers' protests
edit section
Elections and referendums
Recent
January
9: Lebanon, President (13th; indirect)
12: Comoros, Assembly of the Union (1st)
12: Croatia, President (2nd)
16: Vanuatu, Parliament
Upcoming
25: Greece, President (indirect)
26: Belarus, President
29–30: Ireland, Seanad (indirect)
edit section
Trials
Recently concluded
France:Dominique Pélicot
Ongoing
Kosovo:Specialist Chambers
ICC:Ali Kushayb  •  Mahamat Said Abdel Kani
edit section
Sports
American football
2024 NFL season
2024 NCAA Division I FBS season
Association football
2024–25 UEFA Champions League
2024–25 UEFA Europa League
2024–25 UEFA Conference League
2024–25 UEFA Women's Champions League
2024–25 Premier League
2024–25 Serie A
2024–25 La Liga
2024–25 Bundesliga
2024–25 Ligue 1
Basketball
2024–25 NBA season
2024–25 EuroLeague
2024–25 NCAA Division I men's season
2024–25 NCAA Division I women's season
International cricket
2023–25 ICC World Test Championship
Golf
2025 PGA Tour
2025 European Tour
Ice hockey
2024–25 NHL season
2024–25 PWHL season
More details – current sports events
edit section
Recent deaths
January
16: David Lynch
16: Bob Uecker
15: Linda Nolan
14: Tony Slattery
13: Oliviero Toscani
10: Bill McCartney
10: Sam Moore
9: Black Bart
7: Jean-Marie Le Pen
7: Peter Yarrow
5: Mike Rinder
5: Costas Simitis
3: Jeff Baena
3: Brenton Wood
2: Ágnes Keleti
1: David Lodge
1: Chad Morgan
1: Wayne Osmond
December
31: Arnold Rüütel
31: Johnnie Walker
29: Aaron Brown
29: Jimmy Carter
29: Linda Lavin
28: Charles Dolan
27: Greg Gumbel
27: Dayle Haddon
27: Olivia Hussey
27: Charles Shyer
26: Richard Parsons
26: Manmohan Singh
25: Britt Allcroft
25: Bill Bergey
25: Jax Dane
25: M. T. Vasudevan Nair
25: Osamu Suzuki
24: Dési Bouterse
24: Richard Perry
23: Shyam Benegal
23: Sophie Hediger
21: Michelle Botes
21: Art Evans
20: Casey Chaos
20: George Eastham
20: Rickey Henderson
19: Michael Leunig
18: Slim Dunlap
18: John Marsden
17: Igor Kirillov
17: Marisa Paredes
17: Jānis Timma
edit section
Ongoing conflicts
Global
War against the Islamic State
Africa
Cameroon
Anglophone Crisis
Central African Republic
Civil war
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Kivu conflict
Ethiopia
Amhara conflict
Mozambique
Insurgency in Cabo Delgado
Nigeria
Boko Haram insurgency
Sahel insurgency
Mali War
Burkina Faso
Niger
Somalia
Civil war
Sudan
Civil war
Americas
Mexico
Mexican drug war
Asia−Pacific
Afghanistan
Islamic State–Taliban conflict
Republican insurgency
India
Naxalite–Maoist insurgency
Indonesia
Papua conflict
Myanmar
Civil war
Pakistan
Insurgency in Balochistan
Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Philippines
NPA rebellion
Europe
Russia and Ukraine
Russian invasion of Ukraine
Middle East
Israel
Israel–Hamas war
Israeli invasion of Lebanon
Syria
Israeli invasion of Syria
Turkey
PKK insurgency
Yemen
Red Sea crisis
See also – List of ongoing proxy wars
edit section
2025 events and developments by topic
Arts
Animation (Anime)ArchitectureComicsFilm (Horror, Science fiction)Literature (Poetry)Music (Classical, Country, Hip hop, Jazz, Latin, Metal, Rock, UK, US, Korea)RadioTelevision (Australia, Canada, Ireland, UK, Scotland, US)Video games
Politics and government
ElectionsInternational leadersSovereign statesSovereign state leadersTerritorial governors
Science and technology
ArchaeologyBiotechnologyComputingPalaeontologyQuantum computing and communicationSenescence researchSpace/AstronomySpaceflightSustainable energy research
Environment
Climate changeWeather (Heat wavesTornadoesWildfires)
Transportation
AviationRail transportTransportation technology
By place
Establishments and disestablishments categories
EstablishmentsDisestablishments
Works and introductions categories
WorksIntroductionsWorks entering the public domain
2025
at Wikipedia's sister projects
Media from Commons
News from Wikinews
Quotations from Wikiquote
Texts from Wikisource
Taxa from Wikispecies
Discussions from Meta-Wiki
...more
edit section
vte
Current events by month
Discover Wikipedia using portals
icon
 List of all portals
icon
 The arts portal
icon
 Biography portal
icon
 Current events portal
globe
 Geography portal
icon
 History portal
square root of x
 Mathematics portal
icon
 Science portal
icon
 Society portal
icon
 Technology portal
icon
 Random portal
icon
 WikiProject Portals
Categories: All portals2025 by dayCurrent events portal2025Current eventsWikiProject Current eventsHistory portals
This page was last edited on 15 July 2024, at 23:17 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.